# GDScript protocol generator

Generate abstract communication protocol between GDScript and Python in form of message handling class.


## How it works?

Let's assume that you need a communication channel between Godot application and Python script. Let it be 
kind of Godot 3D environment (a game) controlled by Python script. In following scenario fundamental thing 
to do is ability to understand messages (data) reciving and sending by both sides: a Godot application and 
a Python application.

Generator needs configuration file in form of `.cvs` file where user defines message IDs and message 
parameters to exchange between parties. Then generator produces GDScript and Python class with `_receive_*` 
methods to be implemented by user. Implementation of those methods should match meaning of received message. 
Normally the exchange medium would be TCP/IP channel, but user is not limited to it. Sending and receiving 
raw data has to be implemented in `_send_message_raw` and `_recv_message_raw` methods. User is 
encouraged to use inheritance technique to override mentioned stub methods.

Generator helps to maintain the protocol consistent based on simple config file.

If You need to serialize and deserialize data between GDScript and Python, then 
[gdtype-python](https://github.com/anetczuk/gdtype-python) project is the answer.


## Example

In directory `examples` there is simple confguration file and output generated by the tool.


## References

- [Texthon template processor](texthon.chipsforbrain.org/)
- [gdtype-python](https://github.com/anetczuk/gdtype-python)


## License

Software is distributed under MIT License

Copyright (c) 2022 Arkadiusz Netczuk <dev.arnet@gmail.com>
